Ah, this is driving me insane. To make a
lot of money, you don't need to be a
genius. You just need to remember a few
key things. Ramit Sati, financial
expert, the money man, New York Times
bestseller. Has more than 20,000
documented success stories. This is your
chance to never worry about money again.
You can live a rich life regardless of
where you came from, regardless of your
income. How many people are clear on
what their rich life looks like? Less
than 1%. When I talk to people who have
a spending problem, 100% of the time
they always say the same thing. I just
need to earn more. If you doubled your
income today, do you think your problems
would disappear? No. Some of the stats I
pulled out from your book, about 25% of
people who make $100,000 a year plus are
still living paycheck to paycheck. Makes
us realize that maybe the things we
think we need are things that we have
been socially taught are important. For
example, owning a house is the best
investment. It means you are successful.
But it can be a very bad financial
decision. There are far better, far
simpler investments. So, I've got £100
that I want to invest. Where do I start?
I love that we're getting into the nuts
and bolts. Let's do this exercise
together and everyone can do it with us.
First off, and then Got it. Now, there's
just one more thing you have to do.
Do you know the math? I would have
736,000
in my account. Yeah.
Reit 10 money rules. This is where the
real wealth is created. Number one,
this episode changed my perspective on
money. I'm an investor. I've been
investing for the last six, seven years
at different levels. Big companies,
small companies, the S&P 500 funds, you
name it. But Rammit changed my mind. He
changed my mind on money, spending,
investing, and he changed my mind on
something that I think 95%
of you that are listening to this
podcast and that are about to listen to
this need to have your mind changed on
too. that if you have the right
philosophy towards money, the right
perspective and mindset towards money,
then there is a path to living our rich
life, to becoming rich that enough
people are not talking about. He debunks
the myths of money, the limiting beliefs
about money, and he confronts all of the
unhelpful advice about money that stands
in the way of you becoming rich. There's
an app on my phone that I now have
installed because of this conversation.
And there are three big investments that
I've now made in my life because of this
conversation.
And there is one key idea
that I now believe will make me 10 times
more wealthy over the next three decades
because of this conversation.
You're going to love it. Enjoy.
[Music]
Remmit.
Someone's just clicked on this podcast
on YouTube, on Spotify, on Apple, and
they saw the title, they saw the
thumbnail, they thought that sounds
interesting.
Tell me why you think they should stay
and listen to what we're going to talk
about today, what they stand to gain if
they give us their time. Whenever
someone hears someone talking about
money, they get rigid. They instantly
think that someone's going to come in
and tell them, "You can't spend money on
lattes. You can't go on vacation. You
can't buy any new clothes. Save all your
money until you're 90 years old." And
maybe, just maybe, then you can spend
it. And I don't believe in any of that.
I think you should spend extravagantly
on the things you love as long as you
cut costs mercilessly on the things you
don't. I think you should live a rich
life today and an even richer life
tomorrow. And so when you combine money
and psychology, you start to understand
that there is more to a rich life than
just some number in a spreadsheet.
People already know they should be
saving more. They know about compound
interest. They may not know the
intricacies, but they understand if they
invest some now, they're going to have
more later. So, what's stopping them?
That's been the central question that
I'm fascinated with for the last 20
years. That's why when I studied human
behavior and persuasion and psychology,
I was obsessed with this question of
what are the things we know we should
do, but we still don't. You can live a
rich life regardless of where you came
from. You can live a rich life
regardless of your income. Now, of
course, having a higher income
dramatically helps, but just like
fitness, we can all improve where we
are, and that's what we get to talk
about today. When you talk about the
language, language of money, what do you
mean? I mean understanding the nuts and
bolts of money. So, just the same way
that we all learn how to drive, we learn
the rules of the road, when to use our
turn signals, most of us do not have
even the equivalent knowledge of money.
For example, the basic language of money
would be what percentage of your income
are you saving and why? What percentage
are you investing and why? When will you
have $100,000 or $500,000 or a million
dollars and what will that money get
you? Because just having a million
dollars in the bank is pointless. What
does it get you specifically?
This is the basic language of money.
You've got to know your key four, six
numbers in your life. Not many, just a
few. But once you understand those
numbers, it's like understanding the
speed limit. Understanding the speed
limit means you understand a lot.
There's a rule of the road. If you go
too fast, what's going to happen? Why do
these rules exist? And these rules are
similar in money. You can break them.
That's okay. But you got to understand
the rules first. What are those numbers
that I need to know? There's four
numbers that I really like to track. I
track these myself and these are the
numbers I encourage. The first is your
fixed costs. Okay, those would be your
rent or your mortgage, your in uh your
uh any debt payments, groceries, the
money that you are spending every single
month that is essentially fixed. And the
number I recommend for that is 50 to 60%
of your take-home pay. So that would be
if you're spending 50 to 60% of what you
make, what you take home on your rent,
your groceries, any debt payments, your
car, you're in good shape. Okay. The
next one is your savings. That would be
roughly 5 to 10%. Savings would be
things like an emergency fund, savings
for a down payment, for a car, things
like that. Third is investments. Uh this
is where the real wealth is created. And
for this, 5 to 10% of take-home is fine.
Of course, the more you put in, the more
you're going to have. And then the
fourth category, the one I love the
most, is called guilt-free spending.
This is going out for cocktails in New
York. It's buying a beautiful shirt.
It's treating your friends, whatever you
love, yoga,
20 to 35% of your take-home pay. So, if
you're watching or you're listening to
this, just take 15 minutes back of the
napkin, jot down your approximate
numbers. You don't even have to get them
perfect. And you will be able to
benchmark how you are spending compared
to those numbers. I'll tell you that
those numbers tell me a lot. It's almost
if you just show me those four numbers
of your spending, I can tell so much. I
can tell what you love spending on. I
can tell what you don't. I can tell what
your priorities are.
And I can also tell where you are out of
alignment. So I'll give you an example.
When I ask people, "What is your rich
life?" One of the common answers they
say is, "I want to do what I want when I
want." I go, "Oh god, not this answer
again." I hear it every day. I go, "Wow,
that's so interesting. So what do you
want?" They go, "Uh, most people have
never thought beyond a trit answer." So
then the next answer I often get is
freedom. I want freedom. I go, "Great.
That sounds good. What is freedom?" I
want to do what I want when I want. I
look at their numbers and I see
a huge payment that they're making to a
30-year mortgage. I see debt payments. I
see car payments. And I go, "Now, this
is interesting. You want freedom, but
you have essentially anchored yourself
down to not be able to travel or to
pivot or to move. How can those two be?
How can you reconcile those two? And
that dissonance is actually a
fascinating moment. I love when we
experience dissonance. We all do. I say
that I want to work out more, but I
don't work out more. Why? And what
you'll discover is people often they
simply have never thought about it. What
what our rich life is these gener these
generic phrases, freedom, flexibility,
it's just words. What I really want
somebody to say, I want them to go a lot
deeper, is to say,"I want to be able to
travel for six weeks a year. I want to
go to London. I want to go to New Delhi.
I want to go to Thailand because I want
to visit my family." That's a good
start. If we get even more specific,
they tell me what seat on the airline
they're sitting on. They tell me where
they're eating. They tell me who they're
bringing with them.
But to simply say I want freedom is so
vague that when I look at your numbers
there's often a huge inongruity with how
you're spending versus what you claim
your rich life is. How many people from
your experience of interviewing people
and doing this research are clear on
what their rich life looks like down to
you know what you described there I want
to travel for a couple of months a year
and then even further down to which seat
I'm going to be in which class I'm going
to be on as I travel less than 1% less
than 1% of people know that no most
people literally say I want to do what I
want when I want that is their the
extent to which they've thought about a
rich life why does it matter to be? What
did that one that less than 1% of people
that have that planned out have as an
advantage or a benefit from that
meticulous thought that the other 99%
don't have because they can craft their
rich life that is uniquely theirs.
Almost like getting a handmade glove.
And in fact, the more you craft your
rich life, the more bewildering it looks
to the outside world. So, I'll give you
an example from my own life. I love to
travel. I spend a lot of money when my
wife and I, we go, we'll travel for
months at a time.
I love hotels. I love the hospitality. I
love the details. I I love it all. I
don't really care about cars. Not at
this phase of my life. It's just not
that important to me. So, when I talk
about my money dials or the things that
I love to spend money on, I might spend
a crazy amount on a hotel per night just
because I love it. But I drive a car
that's almost 20 years old. It's just
not important to me. And I want that. I
want to hear in your life what you spend
extravagantly on but then you cut costs
mercilessly on because I want that
duality which indicates you are
intentional about your rich life. What
if we're buying things to impress other
people and we don't cuz it's hard to
looking in from the outside especially
it's hard to know if someone actually
likes Lamborghinis. Yeah. or if they're
buying Lamborghinis because they were
beat up when they were 9 years old on
the playground and they're trying to
overcompensate and make the world and
does it matter why they're buying it.
Does it matter? I don't know. H first of
all, how would we even know? How would
they know? Is there a is there a
difference? Do you think just on your in
your opinion on the impact that that
purchase has on us? Whether we're doing
it intrinsically or we're doing it
exttrinsically because I reflect on some
of the things that I spent money on and
I go that was for someone else. Whereas
there's other things I spend money on
which are maybe health related or travel
related like convenience flying in a
nice class on a plane which I go no
that's actually adding a lot of benefit
to my life. Whereas that mansion I
bought out in the countryside when I was
23 or whatever was a terrible decision.
It took me away from my friends because
it was an hour and a half outside of the
city. Yeah. And none of my friends ever
came to it. So, I was just arriving at
midnight after work in this
mansion with this tennis court by
myself, sleeping for 3 hours and then
driving another hour and a half back to
the city where all my friends in work
were. I go, that was a stupid
decision based on extrinsic external,
you know, motivations. It's a great
question and you know, particularly in
America, we love this idea of ownership.
We are taught you've got to own. Owning
a house is the best investment. It means
you are successful. And if you're
renting, no one really says this, but
what they deep down say is you're a
loser. Yeah. Okay. This individualistic
strain really runs deep. And it has led
a lot of people to make poor financial
decisions. Uh first of all, you might be
surprised to hear my view is that owning
can be a good financial decision, but it
also can be a very bad financial
decision. In fact, I rent by choice. And
living in New York, for example, I lived
here for a long time,
I knew that if I were to buy, I would be
losing thousands of dollars every single
month because it actually cost more than
twice as much to own than to rent.
But can you imagine the type of
pressures even I got from people who
would come over and say, "Oh, so do you
own this place?" the place that I was
renting. I said, "No, I rent." And there
was this visible moment of confusion.
They're shaking my hand. They know that
I'm the I will teach you to be rich guy,
but I rent. How can you be teaching
money, but you rent? Isn't renting for
losers? And I have to say, because I was
rockolid confident in my decision, that
pressure did not affect me. But I want
to also say that a lot of us buy things
based on status. Like the idea that we
don't buy things based on what people
around us think is is nonsense. We buy
things based on status. To deny it is
absurd. But I do think that for the big
purchases in your life like a house, a
car, the big things, you've got to run
the numbers. And if you decide, hey, you
know what? I want to buy a house even
though it's going to cost me an extra
$600,000 in opportunity costs and
phantom costs, but I'm going to do it
because I like it or it makes me feel
good. I say God bless. But if you simply
make decisions based on what other
people around you do, then you will
discover like you did, I thought I was
going to feel a certain way and I don't
really feel that way. And that for me is
an opportunity for you to interrogate
your own beliefs. And money is a like a
personal zero sum game, right? Like so I
can't just spend indefinitely. So buying
that ridiculous house out in the
countryside takes away from something
which might have genuinely brought me
closer to happiness like I don't know
going away with my family or whatever it
might be. Exactly. You you talked there
about buying property. I find that
really curious because the the popular
narrative is for most people the minute
they get any decent amount of money is
to buy your first house. And that's what
people do. they get they take a 10%
deposit or 20% deposit, whatever it
might be, and they buy a house. Um, why
is that a poor investment? Why is that a
bad thing to do? Because that does kind
of sit counter to the popular narrative.
Well, we have to remember first of all
where the popular narrative came from
America. If you ask people, what is the
American dream?
Yeah. The answer is inextricably tied up
with a single family home with a white
picket fence. That's not an accident.
That is the result of decades of
messaging. Some might call it
propaganda.
First of all, most people in the world
do not live in single family homes like
we do in America. That has caused a lot
of issues. But to leave that part aside,
this is how most people think about
buying a house. They think grandma
bought a house in Austin, Texas in 1970
for $100,000.
Grandma just sold it 50 years later for
$1 million. Grandma made $900,000.
They go, "It's the most profitable thing
you could do. Buy a house." I go, "Okay,
uh, that sounds really nice." Did granny
factor in how much she spent on
maintenance for the past 50 years? Uh,
no. Uh, did Granny factor in inflation
and how that affected her return? Uh,
no. What's inflation? Uh, did Granny
factor in the opportunity costs of what
that down payment could have been used
if invested in the S&P 500? Uh, no. And
did Granny look at all these phantom
costs such as interest on the loan? Uh,
no. It's not simply the bigger number
minus the smaller number. That's wrong.
That is simplistic.
For the biggest purchase of your life,
you've got to go deeper. Again, when I
was living here, I kept a very close eye
on real estate. and the place right
right next to me, same square footage,
same number of bedrooms, same
everything, it would have cost 2.2 times
what I was paying in rent. So, just to
give you an example, if I was paying
$3,000 a month, it would have cost about
$6,400 a month to own. Okay? I said,
"You know what? I like renting. If I
have a problem, I just text my
landlord." I took the $3,400 I would
have spent owning when factoring in
phantom costs, maintenance, interest,
taxes, all that and I simply invested it
and I made more money doing that than I
would have owning. What about if you're
buying somewhere to for the rental
income? That can work. That can work. So
owning real estate as an investment can
be part of a well- diversified portfolio
if you run the numbers. Right now
there's a lot of hype. People go, "I'm
going to buy a house and if I don't like
it or whatever, I'm just going to rent
it out." Okay, fine. But you've got to
remember that if your mortgage is
$1,000,
that's not just the amount you're
paying. There's a lot more. In fact, in
my estimations, I add 50% to that price.
So, $1,500 a month, which would include
a roof repair happening 19 years from
now. We've got to advertise that out. uh
labor costs, interest, all that. If you
can rent it out and make a profit,
fantastic. It cash flows. That's
awesome. What you discover is that most
people who buy a primary residence, the
place they want to live in, they buy it
because they want it and then they tell
themselves it's an investment.
Buying a house can be an investment, but
oftentimes it's not. And there are far
better, far simpler investments. Here's
my key message. I want to make sure
nobody misunderstands me. I've been
accused of saying buying a house is bad.
No, I never said that. In fact, I will
buy a house myself one day. And when I
do, it's going to be a terrible
financial decision. And I'm going to do
it anyway. My key message is for the
biggest purchase of your life, you've
got to run the numbers. Sometimes buying
can be a good financial decision. Often
renting can be a good financial
decision. run the numbers and never feel
guilty for renting. As it relates to
buying a house, I've always been
hesitant because I'm
scared really of the point you mentioned
about being anchored to a location. So,
I the way that I've kind of justified
that away is by saying, "Well, I'll just
Airbnb it when I'm not there or I'll
rent it out when if I decide to move to
New York or whatever." Is there a a cost
in the opportunity of being less
flexible about where you can be um that
people don't think about especially when
they're younger? Yes. And they're
probably a little bit unencumbered by
you know life at that point. Yes. Buying
a house is one of the most profound
financial decisions that will affect
your lifestyle ever.
You can sell a car even at a minor loss,
but selling a house involves massive
transaction costs and labor that most
people don't anticipate.
One of the reasons that I rent is for
lifestyle reasons. Financial, yes, I
make more money renting and investing
the difference than I would owning, but
also lifestyle. I don't know that I'm
going to be in the same place for 10
years, which is one of the key things
that I would encourage people to decide
before they buy. You want to know that
you're going to be there for at least 10
years because then you can spread all
those transaction costs. Spread them out
over 10 years. They become much more
affordable. It's kind of like buying an
expensive jacket. If you buy it and you
wear it once, that's really expensive.
If you buy it and wear it over 10 years,
becomes a lot more affordable. Now, take
that, multiply it by a thousand, and
that's a house.
Particularly for young people,
I don't give a lot of unsolicited
advice. I used to do it when I was
young, when I just learned about money
and I realized nobody really wants to
hear it. They really don't. If somebody
comes to me, they come to my blog, my
social media, great. Otherwise, I'm not
going around telling people, you should
do this.
Once in a while though, I get a young
person asking me, I'm just about to
graduate from college. What advice do
you have for me? And at that moment, the
the best piece of advice that I have is
move where the action is. And typically
that's a big city. So that would be
where there's more jobs, where there's
simply more people if you're looking for
relationships. And there's a lot of
tacit knowledge that happens in big
cities. Like, oh, have you tried this?
Oh, what? Have you seen that musical?
Uh, have you tried this thing? This idea
that's going around. So often
surrounding yourself geographically can
be hugely rewarding to you as you grow.
You can't do that if you bought a house
because everybody told you that it was
going to be the best investment. And if
I were to say, "Show me where you
calculated the numbers that it was going
to be an a great investment."
75 plus% of people have never created a
simple spreadsheet. How does buying a
house compare in terms of returns to
something like investing in the S&P 500?
It's quite poor actually. Really? Yeah.
Over about a hundred years, there's
great research showing that it has
essentially matched inflation. It's been
slightly above inflation. People find
this mind-boggling again because they
think somebody bought a house for 100K
and they sold it for a million, so it's
900K. But they don't properly factor in
inflation, opportunity cost, phantom
costs, all that. It's really hard to
factor these numbers in. But it's
critical because it's the biggest
purchase of your life. I'll give you
another example of where people don't
properly factor it in. Uh some people
pay a financial adviser 1%. They go 1%
it's not a big deal. I'll pay 1%.
What they don't realize is that that 1%
over the course of their lifetime will
take 28% of their returns and hand them
over in fees. Think about it. If you
make a million dollar in investing over
the course of your life, $280,000 are
going right out of your pocket into that
advisor's pocket. Now, that's super
counterintuitive. 1% turns into 28%. How
does it work? You can simply go online
and search for uh investment cost
calculator and plug in the numbers, add
a 1% fee, and you will see. The point of
this is that sometimes money is highly
counterintuitive.
Really counterintuitive. It's unlike
anything else. If you and I go to sushi
right now and we get sushi for 20 bucks,
it'll be fine. If we get it for a
hundred bucks, what do you think? It
probably be a little better, right? And
if we get it for $1,000, the fish will
have been flown in from Tokyo this
morning and it will be served in an
absolutely stunning setting. So, in
other words, you pay more, you get
better results. We're used to that. If I
spend more on a sweater, it's probably
going to have a different type of
fabric. More on a car, it's going to
look cooler, have cooler features.
Money's not like that. If you spend
more, you don't get better returns. You
don't get better anything. In fact, if
anything, you get worse returns. People
find this mind-boggling because it is.
It's counterintuitive. But in investing,
costs matter. In buying a house, you've
got to run the numbers because they are
totally counterintuitive. Quick one
before we get back to this episode. Just
give me 30 seconds of your time. Two
things I wanted to say. The first thing
is a huge thank you for listening and
tuning into the show week after week. It
means the world to all of us. And this
really is a dream that we absolutely
never had and couldn't have imagined
getting to this place. But secondly,
it's a dream where we feel like we're
only just getting started. And if you
enjoy what we do here, please join the
24% of people who watch this channel
regularly and have hit that subscribe
button means more than I can say. And if
you hit that subscribe button, here's a
promise I'm going to make to you. I'm
going to do everything in my power to
make this show as good as I can now and
into the future. We're going to deliver
the guests that you want me to speak to
and we're going to continue to keep
doing all of the things you love about
this show. Thank you. Thank you so much.
Back to the episode. So, what is the S&P
500 for anybody that doesn't know? Yeah.
And what are the returns that I'm likely
to get from investing in the S&P 500? I
really want to simplify this for people
that are at the very start of their
investing journey, you know, because I
mean, this is what you spend so much of
your time doing that. I just think about
my my team here, say the diary of a CEO.
There's about 30 people and we started
talking about money one day and it was
mindblowing how nobody in my team's
lives had ever had the conversation with
them about investing. We all think of
investing as something that rich people
after the age of 40 do once you have a
million dollars. Um or if you don't have
a million dollars then the only other
way to invest we're taught is to buy a
house. Ah this is driving me insane.
It's true though, isn't it? Yes. And
that's that's the central part of my
work is that you can live a rich life
and that rich life can be richer and
more vibrant and more personal than you
ever imagine. If you want to travel, you
can travel for longer than you ever
thought. You can travel for me at nicer
hotels. You can uh spend more time with
your children, with your loved ones.
Whatever your rich life is, you can do
that. But you've got to learn a few key
basic things about investing and money.
So let me tell you what I would tell my
family when they come to me. They go,
"How should I start investing?" The
simplest simplest way that I advise my
family is I say, "Get a target date
fund." So let me explain what that is. A
target date fund is one fund, just one,
and you pick it based on the year that
you're going to retire. So, if you're
going to retire in 2050,
if you're going to be 65 in 2050, you go
and you find that one fund. It's called
a Vanguard 2065 fund or Fidelity 2065 or
Schwab 2065. There's lots of brokers.
These funds, it's one fund. All you do
is put money into it. That's it. The
fund, like a pie chart, is automatically
diversified. So, as you get older, it
gets more conservative because somebody
who's 75 years old should be investing
differently than someone who's 25.
One fund, all you have to do is set your
money up to go into it every single
month. What is a fund? A fund is uh a
set or a basket of stocks and maybe
bonds. So, we've all heard of, you know,
companies like Microsoft, Google,
whatever. A fund owns lots of these,
right? And that's important because
we've heard diversification, like you
should have diversified your
investments. Okay? Well, how do I do
that? You don't need to go and buy 20
stocks and then figure out how much of
each to do. That's too much work. And
honestly, most people are not good at
that, even professionals. You buy a fund
which automatically owns lots of stocks
like hundreds of them and over time all
you the individual investor like me have
to focus on is putting money into it
automatically. So a fund essentially
I've got £100 that I want to invest. Um
I find a fund. Where do I find these
funds? You can go to Vanguard, Schwab or
Fidelity. All those are great companies.
uh what you're looking for regardless of
what country you're in is you're looking
for a lowcost brokerage firm. So, but
there's also apps and stuff that I can I
can you can use apps. I don't like a lot
of the apps because they gify you to try
to invest. They want you clicking and
trading. I hate traders. Trader, you do
not want to be a trader. Traders lose
money. Investors treat investing like
watching paint dry. That's how sexy it
is. Trust me, I'm not getting my
entertainment from investing. I'm going
out, go watch a movie, go watch Netflix,
but investing is boring and automatic.
That's how it should be. I used a a a
company called Hogre Lands down in the
UK who have an app. When I first started
investing, um when I first started
investing in funds, they they had a very
ugly app, so I wasn't very compelled to
use it. I think it's better now. But I
would use just do it on desktop, which I
do get your point because you don't want
to you don't want to be game. You don't
want to screen all of that notification.
I like ugly. It should be ugly. And you
don't want it to be too accessible as in
I don't want to be able to check it
every day. No, look on my phone. You
will see no investing apps. There should
not be. Why do you need to log in and
check it every day? What's the point? In
fact, I log, you know, most people
should check it every 3 to 6 months. And
here's how you check it. You log in on
your desktop. Wow, it's up. Wow, it's
down. Okay, bye. You're not tweaking
anything. It's like making Thanksgiving
dinner. Once you've put the turkey in
the oven, just let it sit. Do not fiddle
with it because you're only going to
mess it up. And in this case, you're
letting the turkey cook for decades. And
that fund. So, I've got a £100. I go on
a website. Yep. Vanguard, Fidelity
Schwab, whatever they are. I have no
alliance to any of them. Neither do I.
Um, there's various ones in the UK. I
actually do recommend Hogrey Lands down
just because it's quite simple and I
think investing in funds, there's no
fees. There's no fee associated with the
investment itself. Obviously, they take
a, you know, they might take a
percentage depending on which fund
you're investing in. I take my 100
pounds and investing in Hargrave
landsdown, you don't need, there's no um
minimum. Great. From what I understand,
and there's no if you invest in a stock,
they charge 12 pounds per investment,
but if you invest in a fund, it's free.
Um, I put my£100 into a fund. The fund
is essentially taking one pound, one of
those pounds and investing one pound
into Facebook. It's investing one pound
into Google, one pound into Shopify, one
pound into Spotify, one pound into
Nvidia or whatever. It's doing that for
me. It's managing it for me. It's making
the decisions for me. I just put the
money in every month. Whatever I can and
I leave it. Yeah. And let's go even
deeper. I love that we're getting into
the nuts and bolts here because, you
know, honestly, most people, they do not
know how to invest. Literally, what
website do I go to and then what do I
do?
The fund owns these different stocks and
some will go up and some will go down
and it's inconsequential to you. All you
need to know is you own this fund.
Now that you've opened up an account and
you've sent a hundred bucks or a
thousand bucks, great. You've made one
of the most important decisions of your
life. Now, there's just one more thing
you have to do. Set up an automatic
transfer so that every single month you
have a certain amount of money going in.
Now, if you don't know how much money,
use my conscious spending plan
guideline. What did I say? 5 to 10% of
take-home is a good guideline. All
right? You should be able to do 5%.
Trust me, anyone who comes to me, they
go, "Reie, there's no way. Must be nice.
I can't afford." I go, "Show me where
you're spending your money. I guarantee
you I can find 5% to send in every
month." Now, you're not trying to send
it in. I don't try to brush my teeth in
the morning. It's a habit. Investing is
even easier than brushing your teeth
because you set it up automatically. The
investment fund will automatically draw
from your checking account. And it will
pull in a hundred bucks, 500 bucks,
a,000 bucks, whatever your number is.
And so, you're not going to log in for
three, four, five months. You're going
to log in a few months later, you're
going to be like, "Oh my god, I didn't
even realize that all this money is in
here." When you add that plus
compounding over many years, that is how
real wealth is created. So I don't want
anyone to think that you have to be rich
in order to start investing. One of the
ways you get rich is by investing. I've
got a friend that's currently actually
in this building at the moment and I had
this conversation with them about a year
ago. Gave the advice that you've just
given there. And about 2 months later,
this individual who I shan name came to
me and I said, "How's your uh you know,
your your your investments going in that
in that fund?" And they said, "Oh, yeah.
I had bills. I had a credit card bill,
so I I took took it out." Oh, yeah. She
she treated it like a checking account.
Investments for me are
places to accumulate wealth. I don't
draw from it. That's what a checking
account is for. So, if what that is is
there's two parts to what your friend is
saying. one is um mentally she's
thinking that this investment account is
just money I can draw from if I need it.
So I would sort of gently change the way
she thinks about it. The second is I
guarantee her account structure is a
little
um subpar. So here's how I would set it
up. This is in chapter five. Uh it's all
automation because trust me, I don't
want to spend time transferring money
back and forth. That's I don't spend any
time on that. You get paid, your money
goes into your checking account. From
your checking account, it is
automatically transferred to a savings
account. In fact, I have subsavings
accounts for vacation, car, down
payment, all that stuff. So, you have
money set up for specific goals. Money
is transferred to your investment
account. It's transferred there. I'm not
gonna touch that money. I'm gonna let it
cook. And then I have my guilt-free
spending, which is going out with
friends, whatever I love, and my credit
card bill is automatically paid off
every single month. That's how you want
to set it up. It takes a couple of weeks
to set everything up and then you never
have to think about it again. C how can
you prove to me that this is the way to
make wealth? What case studies have you
got that investing in funds over a long
period of time is the path to financial
wealth? Because you know it's you said
earlier about the paint drying thing.
The narrative that we see about how why
people and how people get rich is you
know they sell a company or they have a
lottery win or maybe they buy some
cryptocurrency and it goes up. Yeah.
That's what we hear. So that's what we
try and emulate. Totally. We prove to me
that that's that this fund strategy is
better. Well, there's there's a couple
things. First off, the research over
more than a hundred about a hundred
years shows the returns of the stock
market and the returns tend to be at
least in America they tend to be around
11%
10 to 11% and if you take out inflation
you get about 7 to 8%. Per year. Now for
anyone listening they go okay well what
does that mean? That number means
nothing to me. 7% whatever.
If you go right now and you Google
investment calculator and you just plug
in your age, you plug in let's say 200
300 bucks a month and you plug in 7%
return and you just watch how that money
grows. You will be shocked. Jack, get me
my phone. I'm going to do it now. Okay.
So, let's search for compound interest
calculator. And there's a really simple
one. This it's called Money Chimp. Okay.
Okay, I've got it. All right. All right.
So, there's four numbers we need to fill
out here. Let's take a look. The first
is current principle. That means how
much you've got in the bank. I'm going
to say
$5,000 and I'm going to start when I was
16. Cuz if id saved my money when I was
16 and not spent it irres recklessly, I
think I could have had that $5,000 when
I was 16. Um, annual addition. What does
that mean? How much can you invest per
year? So, for most people, they think
about on a monthly basis. They might say
200 bucks a month, which would be $2,400
annual addition. Okay. So, what do you
want to say? I'm going to say, can I say
$5,000? Yeah, that's, you know, about
400 bucks a month. I think that's
reasonable. I often find that with
people making uh median or slightly
above median salary that there are
hundreds of dollars a month of money
that is unaccounted for that if properly
made intentional could be invested. So
great 5,000 a year. All right. Obviously
I could have once I got past a certain
age I could have increased that though.
So we're going to talk about that. Hold
on to that idea. Okay. How many years?
This was you at 20. This was me at 16.
Oh okay. And how old are you today? 30.
Okay. So 14 years. Let's just do it
until today and we'll see what happens.
Okay. All right. 14 years. And then it
says interest rate. So what should we
assume for that? Is that 8%. Yeah. 7 to
eight. I you I do seven just to be super
conservative because I never want to be
surprised on the downside, right? If
anything, I'm going to make more. So 7%.
All right. Let's calculate it. Okay.
What do you see? Damn. What do you see?
$133,000.
537. Yeah, that's what you would have
had right now. Now, let's add some
context. So, this is really important.
You see a number that says $133,000
at age 30. Yeah. Okay. Is that a lot? Is
that not? Hm. I don't know. Let's break
it down. At that point, you started with
$5,000 and you invested $5,000 per year.
We assumed no raises, even though you
obviously made more than you made at age
16. We assumed you stopped investing at
age 30, which is obviously ridiculous.
And you end up with six figures. Let's
play it out. Let's take it until
40.
So instead of 14 years, you invested for
24 years. What do you see?
I would have $336,000.
It's getting better from just $5,000 a
year. Not much. It's fantastic. Again,
400 bucks or so a month is very modest.
Remember, people's income goes up
typically in their 30s and 40s. And if
you already are investing a little bit
automatically, all you have to do is
just tweak a number and it will take an
extra couple hundred, three, four, 500
bucks. Let's do one more. Let's go to 34
years just because I want to see what
happens. and then we're going to play
with the other numbers. Okay. So,
investing from the age of 16 until I'm
50,
I would have $736,000
in my account. Yeah. Now, I want to do
the full the full thing. I want to do a
more realistic number here. So, instead
of 50, we're going to go
49 years.
That takes you to age 65. Yeah. Okay.
and instead of $5,000 per year, your
income obviously went up from being 16
years old. So, I'm going to pick a
number out of thin air and and I'm going
to tell you how I picked it. I'm going
to say instead of $5,000 a year, it's
actually going to be
$30,000 per year. Let me tell you why I
picked that.
In your early years, you don't have as
much money, but you were still investing
a little bit, which shows that you're
dedicated. as your income goes up,
you're going to start proportionally
continuing to invest. So, at a certain
point, your income will be really high,
and that will bring that average up.
That's why I switch this to 30,000 per
year. I actually think this is quite
modest, but I'm going to go ahead and do
it.
So, here we have someone starting
investing at $5,000. They invest $30,000
per year.
Okay? They grow it for 49 years at 7%.
Do you know the math?
No. Tell me. 12,33,000.
So that's me starting with 5K gradually
ratcheting it up until I'm investing
well investing 30k on year a year per
average across those 49 years. Yes.
Which is a flaw in this because it's so
simple that money invested. You're not
actually going to invest that much early
on. you'll invest more later. Yeah, so
you won't actually you'll maybe have a
marginal amount less, but we're talking
10 versus 12 million. That's a lot of
money. And then if I got 8% instead of
the 7%, I'd have 17.4 million. Yeah, but
don't mess with that. Cuz this is what
this is what people do. They go, "Well,
if I got 13%, I'm going to invest in
this PE fund." I go, "Don't do that.
You're going to lose all your money.
Just stop." Yeah. 7% is safe. It's
conservative. That's why I am here.
That's why I want to encourage people,
you don't need to juice your returns. I
hope you do get 8%. But I don't want you
to count on that. I want you to count on
safe, stable returns. And what matters
for you is the time you started early
and the amount you have a considerable
amount to invest. What about the richest
people in the world? You know, we think
of the Warren Buffetts of the world or
the Charlie Mongers of the world who
ended up becoming the richest investors
on planet Earth. Yeah. What was their
strategy? I'll tell you. Let's talk
about Warren Buffett. Uh there's a
friend of mine, Morgan Hel, he wrote
this amazing article. I love that book.
Yeah. The psychology of money. He wrote
this amazing article about Warren
Buffett. If you look at Warren Buffett's
returns,
he started investing at a very young age
and the money compounded. Again, it's
like putting the turkey in the oven and
letting it sit there not just for an
hour, but many hours. In his case, 60
plus years.
He has made over 90 I think over 99% of
his wealth happened over the age of 60.
Okay, think about that. It's all because
he started investing so far ago. And
what is mindboggling is that you don't
need a fancy strategy. You don't need to
be picking individual stocks. You don't
even need to be a genius to make a lot
of money. You do not have to be the
smartest person in the room. You just
need to remember a few key things. Start
as early as possible, okay? And if
you're not 16 years old, if you're 30,
40, even 45, okay, start now. Second,
invest aggressively every single month.
That's critical. Third, keep your costs
low. 1% in fees is going to take 28% of
your returns. 2% is going to take over
55% of your returns. Keep your cost low.
If you do those things, you will have
more money than you ever imagined. What
are the attributes of someone that's
probably going to be poor in 30 years in
terms of their relationship and their
behavior with their money? Easy. They
don't invest. They feel overwhelmed and
anxious about money and they talk about
it all the time, but they've never read
a single book about money.
And there's these deeper attributes they
have. Uh, only rich people invest. They
think that. Yeah. And that's why I'm
here. I want everyday people to know
just like me. I started off, my parents
immigrated from India. I had no special
uh investment knowledge, but I had two
parents who were educated and encouraged
me and said, "Learn this stuff here.
We'll do it together." And that was a
gift. Um, everyday people can build
tremendous wealth, which in and of
itself is impressive, but it's even more
impressive when that wealth is used to
live a rich life, a rich life of
adventure and spontaneity and
generosity. Some of the stats I pulled
out from your book, about 25% of people
who make $100,000 a year plus are still
living paycheck to paycheck. According
to a recent survey of millionaires done
by the US trust, 83% of the wealthy
wealthy say their largest investment
gains have come from small wins over
time rather than taking big risks. Yes,
this is counter to everything we see on
TV because on TV it's really boring.
What are you going to look at my
Vanguard account? Oh wow, compounding 7%
per year. It went down 8% last year and
it went up 9% this year. So boring. So,
we see these cool stories of business
owners, and we're both business owners.
It is cool, but a tremendous amount of
my own wealth will come from lowcost,
long-term methodical investing. That's
like a rule of life, isn't it? That the
the real returns, you know, in reality,
the great returns come from patience.
Yeah. And consistency and things that
really aren't sexy. Like, they're not
Instagrammable. If I post on my
Instagram today, hey, I've got some
advice for you guys to become wealthy.
And I go, need to invest in this fund
and just leave it there. But if I go,
listen, I've got this new NF this new
NFT collection or cryptocurrency coin
that's going to make you a million% this
year. People are going to go all in.
That's just like a something within the
human condition where we want we want
big returns with little effort. And
today, we want to get rich quick. Same
with a six-pack. We want the six-pack
abs in 10 minutes. You don't want six
pack abs with diet restrictions and 9
months of work. That's not and that is
why I have a lot of compassion for
helping people unlearn some of the
messages about money because we all have
them. Uh we all h have the equivalent of
I want six-pack abs. But we also have
something in life that we've spent time
to get really good at and we know that
the secret is basically consistency. If
I go ask someone who's an amazing cook,
hey, I want to cook like you. How do I
do it? What are they going to give me
some use cinnamon? No. They're going to
say, "Get in the kitchen and cook every
single day for 5 years, and you're going
to learn about when to use salt and when
to cook it for longer." Fitness, you
want to ask someone who looks really
good or or feels really good about their
body, they're going to give you some
secret workout. No, they're going to
say, "I show up when I feel good. I show
up when I don't. I show up." when you're
let's think about the people that might
be listening now. So, there's going to
be someone that is a they're a they're a
bus driver or they are a social media
manager. They are a I don't know a
cleaner. They're a teacher. They are a
personal trainer.
If you were if your job was to make that
person a millionaire in 20 years from
now, whatever age they are right now,
what is and you were their financial
adviser and in fact, you were
controlling all of their personal
professional decisions. Uhhuh.
Talk me through what you would do with
that individual at a very detailed
level. I would do a few things. Number
one, that the most important things I
would do would be set up automatic
investing and be aggressive about it.
Two, they have to increase their income.
Okay. I'm going to be that person. I'm
going to embody that person I've just
described. So increase my income. I'm a
personal trainer. Perfect. Okay. So, so
what should I do? All right. You're a
personal trainer. So, first off, I would
say, how much are you charging? How are
you finding your clients? We talk about
that. And let's say you're charging a
hundred bucks an hour and you have
clients, they say, "How long do they
stay on average?" Uh, that's exactly
what I'm charging. Perfect. Great. They
stay longer than two months. I'm very
good. How long do they stay? Three
months. Three months. Wow. Okay. You're
very good. All right. So, your average
client is worth four uh few thousand
bucks. Yeah. Great. So, you're making
let's say 60,000
a year. All right. Uh the first thing
after I understand all this information,
I would say, all right, we're going to
double your income. How are we going to
do that? The first answer everyone gives
is I got to find more clients. Okay, you
should you should ask your clients, hey,
I've got a few slots available. Who
would you recommend? So, you should get
more clients. Second, you're going to
listen to your clients and you're going
to say, um, what else are you looking
for? I know you've got your fitness
journey you're going on. They're going
to tell you, I've got a 10-year reunion.
I want to plan for that. Uh, another
person is going to say, "Gosh, I I know
I should be eating healthier, but it's
really hard for me." So, you're thinking
about it. Here's what you do. You create
uh you package up uh meal planning
services. You can either um do their
macros for them and charge them a little
bit extra. Let's say an extra 200 bucks
a week or 200 bucks a month. You can
also partner with a food delivery
service and you coordinate with that
company to feed over their macros and it
gets delivered to them and you take a
small cut right there. You've added
thousands and thousands of dollars per
year per client as long as they stick
with you. In addition to that, um you
can do group sessions. So you go, "Hey,
um I'm going to do a weekend session.
I'd like for you to invite your friends.
Invite them for free." And of course, of
the people who come, let's say you get
15, 20 people to come, you do a free
little session on Saturday. You go, I'm
a trainer. I work in Soho. I have three
open slots. That's how you're finding
new clients. Now, so you're doing two
things. You're finding new clients.
You're increasing your average lifetime
value per client. Okay, that's the
that's two things. Now, let's do one
last thing. Let's increase the duration
that they stick with you. They're
sticking with you for three months. Give
them a special offer to stay with you
for six months. So, when they sign up,
they work out with you for a month. You
say, "Look, it's a hundred bucks right
now. If you stick with me for a
six-month plan, I will give you my
sessions at $95 per plan. You'll save x
5%."
One, two, three. You've increased. And
if we did the math, you may have doubled
your revenue. You certainly boosted your
profit in a huge way. All of a lot of
that's about making sure you're getting
a better return per hour you spend at
work, but also making sure all of those
hours are full, but then doubling down
and making sure each hour because that's
your your currency when you're a
personal trainer. You're trading in your
time. I need to make the most from every
hour I spend. Um I thought about
something recently as I've been writing
my new book, The Diary of a CEO. Um
which I've written these 33 laws for
building and becoming great.
Essentially, it goes across marketing
and business and whatever. And one of
the chapters that I investigate is this
idea of making sure your skills are on
the right market. So my company went
public. And what one of the things that
I I came to learn from sitting with
investment bankers for many many years
was that if you put a company the exact
same company, let's just say it's you
know the company that make these silver
mugs in front of me. If I take this
company public on the London Stock
Exchange, I might get for example four
times revenue. If I take the exact same
company and I list it on the New York
Stock Exchange, it will be valued at
eight times revenue. It's the exact same
company, exact same people, exact same
business, just moving it to a different
market. And what upon leaving the social
media marketing world when I was 27
years old, one of the first calls I got
was from a biotech company ran by a
billionaire friend of mine that was
going public and they brought me in. And
on the first week when we were
discussing what they might pay me, I'm
thinking there's no they can't really
pay me in cash because I've got enough
cash. I don't really need that. They can
maybe give me some stock. Their offer to
me for my skill set was $8 million,
roughly $8 million in options that I
would earn in 9 months from taking the
company from where it was, building out
the marketing team, handling the
storytelling, and taking the company
public, which we did at about 3.2
billion valuation.
Their offer was $8 million in options. I
reflect on that and go I'd spent the
previous 10 years using the same skill
set to sell consumer goods like dresses
and iPhones for Apple and Logitech and
big fashion brands. I took the same
skill set and applied it to a market and
industry where it was rare. Biotech
people know nothing about Reddit and
Twitter and Facebook and social media.
So my skill set was rare, scarce in that
market. So it was incredibly valuable.
And I think about this a lot with with
especially as this AI thing rolls in. I
think people should be looking at their
skill sets and going where is my skill
set as a writer going to yield the
greatest returns. I could be a social
media manager. I could be a uh um a blog
writer or I could add a little bow
string to my bow and become a a
scientific writer and or like work a
writer in biotech and you'll get paid if
you can add that little bit of knowledge
to your to your writing skills. you'll
get paid I'm going to say five times
potentially five times more. Yeah. And
people don't think about the fact that
they're they they need to use place
their skill sets in the most lucrative
market where it's scarce. Yeah. And I So
yeah, just throwing that out there
because it's really front of mind for me
at the moment. Like personal training,
you know, like you could be at a gym and
you lose 75% of your income to the gym
or you can do it virtually. you can
specialize on um just preparing people
in in the beginning of the year. It's
like your best year and every January
that is your focus. It can be celebrity
clients. It can be uh uptown um
mid-career executives. That's a very
lucrative. You choose but you choose
carefully. I I agree that's a bit of an
advanced concept. I think most people
they start off they go just how do I
make more money? I'm a trainer. I have
free hours. But once you kind of master
that and you go, like, for example,
there's a trainer I know here who
charges 175 bucks an hour. That's very
good.
After you get that and you fill up your
entire calendar, you go, "Okay, I'm
making $35,000
a year. I want to make more. How do I do
it?" Now, you need to get creative. You
move to different markets. You add in
package things that scale when you
sleep. You have video courses, etc.
There's so many different ways, but I
think everyone would do well to listen
to what you're saying, which is think
about how to move up market or
potentially to a totally different
market where your skill set is really
scarce. Yeah. And that's the problem a
lot of people have. There's, you know,
their skill set might be too abundant in
the industry that social media managers,
social media managers is one thing, but
that's a slightly different skill set
because there's there's there's a wealth
of knowledge there that is unique to
that. Knowing the algorithms, knowing
the platforms, there's a real creative
element to it. But I think about my
friend Anthony. He was He was a graphic
designer. Uhhuh. The greatest graphic
designer I ever knew in Manchester. But
he was designing nightclub flyers. And
he's talked about this publicly before
every nightclub flyer he designed, he
got $50, the equivalent $50 to $100,
right? I had a conversation with him a
couple of years ago about this. And I
said, "You're you you're really
specifically good at like luxury design.
M he's got that really like beautiful
chic simple but you know elegant design
style. I always go to him when whenever
I need design work like that. So I said
to him move to Dubai
and and go there and help design um
luxury brands. Yeah. And this guy did
it. So he went from Manchester where he
was doing nightclub flies to moving to
Dubai. And without revealing his
financial position, what I can say is
the same hour per
piece of work is now yielding him tens
and tens more in returns. You know,
instead of getting $500, he's getting
$50,000 for for a project. And it's just
moving his skill set, the same thing,
designing on the same software to a
different industry which will appreciate
and pay him more for the same skill. The
lesson I take away from that beyond his
willingness
to actually make a change, which is
amazing, is that most of us do not think
in terms of discontinuous jumps. We
think, okay, I'm making I have a 100
bucks a a month.
What if I had 120 bucks a month? Well,
20% is like quite good. That's amazing.
But what if I had 500 bucks a month or
5,000? That's a discontinuous jump. And
to get those kind of numbers, something
big has to change. In business, moving
markets, developing a new skill,
partnering, all those things. But it's
different. In investing, it's primarily
time. And that's where we're not attuned
to it. We go, well, you know, I only
have like a couple hundred bucks a month
to invest. That's nothing. It's only
going to turn into a few thousand. You
go, no, you're not thinking about time.
Because the human mind is not made for
compounding. So, plug it into a
calculator and you will be blown away.
Same thing buying a house. You're only
thinking of how expensive your rent is,
which granted rents are very expensive,
but you're not actually factoring in how
much time and money it costs to pay
taxes and maintenance and interest on
your loan. You've got to get smart about
running the numbers. And when you start
to sit back, when you learn the basic
language of money and you understand how
you feel about money, whether it be I
like status or I like luxury or I don't
really care about XYZ. When you
understand your own feelings,
suddenly you can almost look at the
chessboard dispassionately. You sit
back, you go, okay, I see what's going
on here. I even see how I am a player on
the game of life when it comes to money.
And then you start to say the most
powerful question of all. What if? What
if I earned more? What if I spent less?
What if I decided I actually love
traveling two months a year or buying a
house cuz I can decorate it the way I
want? What if? What if? What if? And
then you can start to make moves that
line up with your rich life. Someone
comes to you and they say, "What about
crypto?" I get that question a lot. Oh
god. What about crypto? Should I be
investing in that? My friends told me
about this new coin and um I'm thinking
of putting a couple of thousand pounds
into it. I get this all the time. God,
should I invest in that coin that my
friend told me about? So, I get this
question a lot. I I got it a lot a few
years ago. Yeah. Let me tell you what
happened. You know, people read the
book, they know that I'm a fan of
lowcost long-term investing and then all
these crypto nuts grow up and well, they
grow up to be, you know, 19 years old
and they go, "Oh, Ramit Sati, such an
old guy, such a ly. He doesn't
understand investing. This is the new
future. Fiat is dead. I go, "Um, I have
a couple of questions for you. Number
one, what is the rest of your portfolio
look like?" They go, "Portol, I put it
all in on crypto." I go, "Oh, God."
Okay. Um, second, do you think that it's
normal to get uh 4,000% return per year
when over about a hundred years the
stock market has returned approximately
7% per year? They go, "Yeah, that's cuz
fiat is dead, you idiot. It's going to
be we're going to the moon." I go,
"You're going bankrupt." And many of
them did lose a tremendous amount of
money. My view on crypto is if you have
a well- diversified portfolio, well
diversified, and you want to have a
little bit of fun with one, two, even 5%
of your portfolio, go ahead. And that
could be crypto, it could be an
individual stock, it could be investing
in your friend's bar in Brooklyn, it
could be whatever you want. But you got
to limit your risk. And what you find is
that the type of people who tended to be
attracted to crypto tended to be
extremely risk-seeking.
And in fact, they saw diversification
and risk management as boring for old
people.
This game is a marathon. You want to
live a rich life, you want to be living
it for 60, 70 years. I'm not trying to
get 10,000% returns and then blow out.
And that's what happened to many of
them. I mean, part of the problem here
is that when we do get our 10,000
returns, 10,000% return moment. Yeah. We
think it's going to be 10 million% if we
just But we also go tell everybody. Oh,
of course. You never hear anyone saying,
let me tell you something. Thank you for
saying that. I went on Twitter cuz uh
you know, I mess around with these
crypto guys a lot on Twitter. I have a
great time doing it. I go, "Hey, where'd
all the crypto bros go?" Everyone seems
to have disappeared in 2023. Where'd you
guys go? And there's just like crickets
where in 2020 they were really coming
out, you know, guns blazing. I said, if
you have lost a lot of money from
crypto, send me an email. I want to
share your story. I'll keep you
anonymous. I have a lot of people who
follow me on social media. I got less
than three responses.
We love to share our successes. We love
it. We do it with crypto. We do it with
buying a house and selling it for a
profit. We do it with business. We do
with all that stuff. But you almost
never hear anyone saying, "Oh my gosh, I
bought this uh I sold it for um one the
price. Oh, and by the way, because of
the transaction fees associated, I
actually lost like 80% of my money, you
know, or 85% of my money." You never
hear that. It's deeply shameful for
people to admit that they lost money.
It's the opposite of status, isn't it?
Yeah. Yeah. And we're not wired to seek
the opposite of status. Exactly. We're
not wired to voluntarily bring ourselves
down in the tribe. Exactly. We are
safety seeking. We are status seeking.
And so this is what happens with money.
That's why I talk about prenups and why
I talk about investing and mistakes and
all of the above is that I want to shine
a light and show people if you are only
seeing the top of the iceberg, all the
successes, of course you feel like
you're behind. Of course you feel like
everyone knows something you don't. But
it's complex. Some people make good
decisions, some make poor decisions. We
got to look at them all and then we will
understand what's right for us. So on my
my position on crypto is um I believe in
the underlying technology of the
blockchain and I I'm I've been a big
Ethereum holder for a very very long
time but it does represent less than 5%
of my portfolio although I am a very big
holder um in Ethereum and I've held it
for so long that although I'm at a I'm
at a point of profit right now I'm well
aware that I could go um into a huge you
know into the red. Yeah. Irrespective of
that, it a has is inconsequential to any
decisions or my like my financial
financial portfolio at large and b
because of that I have such a long-term
time horizon that I could hold it for 30
40 years and I've never flinched. I
don't check the price. Sometimes I just
check my password works but I but but
I'm not in I've never traded. I have no
interest in that. Reit's 10 money rules.
I just want to go through these 10 money
rules because you mentioned prenups
there and I was quite curious that
number 10 in these rules is marrying the
right person. But let's start at number
one.
Always have one year of emergency funds.
Yeah. So for me, one year of emergency
fund is conservative. It's more
conservative than most. Lets me sleep at
night and I just keep the cash in a
savings account. It's not under my
pillow. Cash does not mean it's sitting
under my bed. Please don't try to rob
me. It's cash in a savings account,
totally liquid, and that's what it's
for, emergencies. Rule number two, save
10%, invest 20% of gross annual income.
Yeah, this is all about the numbers that
I shared and being more aggressive with
them. I know that paying myself first
now turns into way more later, so I
invest aggressively. Rule three, pay
cash for large expenses like engagement
rings or big holidays or weddings. Yeah,
this one is controversial because for
the things that are important to me, I
don't want price to be the number one
concern. So, I'd rather save up for it.
When I was in my 20s, before I ever met
my wife, I knew one day I would get
married. And because I'm Indian, I knew
we would have a big wedding and I wanted
it to be amazing. So, I started putting
money aside every single month
automatically. I do the same thing for
trips, house, etc. Rule four, never
question spending money on books,
appetizers, health, or donating to a
friend's charity fundraiser. Yeah. So,
the books and the appetizers are a
little weird. I have something called
REIT's book buying rule, which means if
you ever see a book that you're even
remotely interested in, just buy it.
Don't ask a question. Don't equivocate.
Just get it. Because if you can learn
one thing from that book, it can
transform your life. Appetizers. When I
was a kid, we couldn't afford to eat
appetizers. So, we would eat out every
six to eight weeks if we had a coupon.
We'd usually go to a pizza place.
Getting appetizers was inconceivable.
So, now when I eat out, to be able to
see one or even two appetizers that look
good, I go, "Yeah, I'll take them both."
It feels incredibly rich. And this is
just an example of how our childhood
sticks with us. It feels awesome to be
able to do that. Rule number five,
business class flights on flights over
four hours long. Yes. Again, my money
rules, not for anyone else.
When I used to when I was in my early
20s, I would get on a flight and I would
actually in my head scoff as I was
walking from the front of the plane to
the back. Be like, why would anyone
spend four times the money paying for a
first class ticket? Makes no sense.
We're all getting to the same place.
Haha. I wish instead of disparaging that
I would have gotten curious and I wish I
would have said, "Wow, if somebody can
afford to get those seats, why would
they? I wonder what they're spending
money on. Aren't we all getting to the
same place?" And if I had gone from
disparagement to curiosity, from D to C,
I would have understood that some people
have their office paying for it. Some
people do it for health because they
want to get there. They want their back
to feel good. they maybe need to go to a
meeting and some people just have enough
money that they can do what they want.
And when I started to become more
curious about money, that opened up my
eyes to be able to spend on certain
things and spend extravagantly, but also
to realize, wow, maybe I try this
certain type of food once. Cool. I don't
need to do it again. So for me, my money
rule so that I don't have to decide
every time I take a flight, boom, this
is my guideline. It's done. It's
written. Never have to think about it
again. Rule six, buy the best and keep
it as long as possible. Yes, I love
this. I think we all intuitively have
this idea of quality over quantity, but
if you look in somebody's closet or you
look at the things in their house, there
may be some inongruity. So, um, for
example, my car is 17 years old. It's a
good car. I mean, for me, it was a fine
car. I don't care. It rides fine. It's a
four-door Honda Accord. I told you very
sensible, long-term. Great. Uh,
buy the best, keep it for a long time.
It's the same with clothes. Um, those
things matter to me. I like that. And so
I'll buy something that might seem very
expensive, but I'll keep it for a long
time. Good for the environment as well.
Yeah. Rule seven, no limit on spending
on health or education. Yeah, this this
one is important. Um, I learned when I
was in my 20s and I started training and
learning from personal trainers and
nutritionists that I really loved it.
And I also realized that I needed help.
I needed great teachers. And so
eventually I just realized I'm gonna
give myself unlimited spending on this.
Same for education. So I'm a teacher. I
teach different programs. Of course, I'm
a student as well. I want to learn from
great teachers. From taking accounting
classes here at Colombia to buying every
conceivable book and digital program
there is, I've given myself the freedom
to do that. And all that came from uh I
had a scholarship I had many
scholarships that paid my way through
college and one of the scholarships set
up an account for me at the Stanford
bookstore. So when I walked in there I
could get literally any book I wanted.
It was like uh Willy Wonka in the
Chocolate Factory. For a guy like me to
have unlimited books, it was like
unbelievable. And when I graduated from
college, I realized that would be going
away.
And then I remember having this
conversation with myself and saying,
"How much would it really cost to
recapture that feeling, that feeling of
being able to get anything I wanted? See
a book on the bookshelf, I'll get it."
The answer is really not that much. So
over time, that then expanded to health
and education. Health I find really
compelling because
it's clearly clearly the most important
foundation of all of this. It's clearly
the most lucrative investment any of us
could make. Um because everything we've
described, the rich life doesn't exist
without that foundation. Yeah. So, it's
all good investing in your vanguard, but
it doesn't matter at all if you're going
to die. Yeah. If you ask people what's
important to you, they'll often give you
the same answers. They'll say
relationships, health, maybe travel,
career, maybe. Yeah. I go, "Okay, let's
take a look at your spending. Show me
where you spend on those things."
It gets really quiet really fast. Now,
it's one thing to spend time on
relationships, and we should, but we can
also spend money to enrich those things.
It might be surprising your niece at a
showing of uh Michael Jackson, or it
might be surprising your family by going
home and visiting them. There are lots
of ways you can use money to enrich
those experiences. Same for health. It
could be what you buy at the grocery
store. It could be training or a gym
membership. It could be whatever it is
that's meaningful for you. But if we
claim something's important to us, it
sure better show up in our time and our
spending. Rule number eight, earn enough
to work only with people you respect and
like. I love this one. I decided long
ago that I only want to work with people
that I like and respect. And so I earn
enough money so that I can do that. And
to me, who you surround yourself with
matters profoundly. Ideas seep into your
consciousness. values seep in. If I'm
around people who when I look at the
calendar, when I have a meeting with
them, I dread it. I already know it's
the beginning of the end. Most of us
have to work with though,
right? Like we I say have to. I
shouldn't use that word. I don't like
saying have to, but most of us spend
most of our lives, especially the early
part of our lives working with
Um, we work with people that we may not
particularly choose ourselves. I think
that's probably
so yes, I built a life where I could
make that decision for myself. I'm the
CEO of my business, but I think what is
important there is the intentionality
behind it. It's like even if I worked at
a company, I would be deciding on which
division I want to work in, which boss I
want to transfer under based on do I
like and do I respect him. That's it.
the intention is there. You again, these
are my rules, not anybody else's. But if
this one strikes you, then the way that
I would interpret this is, wow, who in
my life do I not like? Who do I not
respect? Do I need to be around them?
Maybe it's not work. Maybe it's the
friend that I hang out with socially on
Saturdays. Again, we have a choice. Not
on everything, but in the things we do
have a choice. What a shame if we don't
use it. Rule number nine, prioritize
time outside the spreadsheets. Yeah, too
many nerds love a spreadsheet and they
they go, I got to optimize, sell B43.
B43 never talk back to me. I go, all
right, look, yes, you need to know your
numbers. Yes, you should be
automatically saving and investing all
that. Yes, do the conscious spending
plan, but at a certain point, you won.
The turkey is cooking. You won. You know
your numbers. Turn the page. Get out of
the spreadsheet. A rich life is lived
outside of the spreadsheet. So on a
personal level, that means I spend less
than one hour per month on my finances.
It all runs. It's a machine. It's a
system. I speak to my wife. We talk once
every couple of weeks about money.
Besides that, do not spend time tweaking
because the rich life is lived having
conversations like this, seeing friends,
seeing my family. That's where I want to
live. not tweaking things endlessly for
no marginal gain. Number 10,
you mentioned your wife there. Marry the
right person. Yeah, maybe the most
important one of all. Um, marriage is
the most consequential
financial and relational decision we
ever make. And people, they're a little
weirded out by this rule. They go, "What
does this have to do with money?" I go,
"What do you mean? The partner you
choose will affect where you live, what
you spend on a dayto-day basis, what
type of house you buy if you do, how
often you travel, the values if you have
children that you pass down to kids. Of
course, it's important. And so these are
conversations that if you are starting
to date, it's great time. There's
natural moments in the dating process or
even the relationship process where you
can bring up money. So, it's like the
first time you take a vacation together.
Take a trip. You go, "Hey, um, just want
to, you know, this is on my mind. I'd
love to just like put it out on the
table. Love that you invited me on this
trip. I'm so excited to go. I'm just
curious. How are you thinking about
paying for the trip? Who who in your
mind pays for it? How would you see us
splitting this?" That's a great way to
bring it up. And you learn a lot about
your partner. Um, there there are
questions you can naturally ask. You
know, how were you raised with money?
What do you remember your parents
telling you? Here's what I remember
about my parents. Genuine curiosity. It
also tells you a lot about your partner.
And then there's a few other natural
moments in a relationship where it just
makes perfect sense to talk about money.
Uh when you get engaged, when you get
married, uh if and when you move in
together pre or post marriage, uh if and
when you have children, there are these
natural moments where you get the gift
of being able to talk about money. Do
people talk about money? couples, they
talk about it uh when something goes
wrong. Outside of that, what sort of
percentage of people, couples, do you do
you think talk about money? Rarely. It's
very low. I know. I speak to them all
the time. I ask them, "When do you talk
about money?" They go, "When we're
fighting or when they talk about it,
it's like it's these grooves that have
been created for 40 years. Oh, every
time she goes to Target, she spends too
much. Haha."
And I'm like, "That's not that funny."
Like the running joke between you is
that she spends too much at Target.
Sounds like resentment. Yeah. Why not it
be
something different so that when you
talk about money once a month
proactively, you always start off
complimenting your partner? You go, you
know what? I really appreciate that when
we travel, you always pick the best
flights. I I have total trust because
you always get us there on time and you
pick the flights that are so comfortable
and I just love you for that. That's a
great way to reframe how we talk about
money. But instead, we often simply do
not talk about it proactively. We only
talk about it when something is a
problem. Do you think our partners
should know how much money we have? When
you're married, probably a little before
that as well.
Like I'll tell you what happened with my
wife and me. So, in my book, in chapter
nine, I talk about how to talk about
money and when to talk about money. And
first of all, there's a lot of uh
personal finance experts. They're like,
"You should talk about money on date
one." I'm like, "Have you guys ever been
on a first date? Can you imagine who's
talking about their asset allocation on
the first date?" I'm like, "Get a life."
So, uh she had um asked me like years
into our relationship some 401k
question. And I was like, "Read this
book. Learn it. It's in there." So, I
knew all about her money. We had talked
about her finances and then as we
started getting more serious one day she
came to me and she said I don't feel
comfortable because you know everything
about my finances and I don't know
anything about yours and that was a a
sobering moment because I realized I had
violated my own rules in chapter nine of
talking about money early and
proactively. Why didn't she feel
comfortable? She didn't feel comfortable
because she felt like I knew everything
and she didn't know anything about me.
Being in the dark about your partner and
their finances is very uncomfortable.
You're pl we were planning to get
married. So what does that mean? Does he
have debt? Does he not? Does he have
this much money or not? Does he expect
me to pay the exact same amount for this
apartment because I don't know if I can
afford that. There are mil What does it
mean for children? What does it mean for
our elderly parents? All that stuff.
This is what money means. Money is not
just a amount in a spreadsheet. It's
where do we live? Security. Security.
Who do we get to be? And you know
security is a really good that word
haunts me because uh we we I realized to
my horror that I had not shared about my
finances. So we had a series of
conversations
and as we got engaged
um we had more. We started talking about
money a lot and uh I mentioned to my now
wife I said it's really important for me
that by virtue of me running a business
for so long I've accumulated this
business these assets and I love you but
it's important for me that we talk about
a prenup and I was very very scared. I
had talked to a lot of friends and I'm
sharing this because prenups are another
thing that always happen in the dark and
I don't want that. I want people to
shine a light and to understand how
these conversations happen because
nobody talks about this. I'm going to
talk about it. So, I was nervous and all
the advice online is awful. It's like,
um, have the conversation. I'm like,
what conversation? What do I say? Or
some people they tell you to blame your
lawyer. My lawyer insisted I have a
prenup. I'm like, if I can't be honest
to my soon to be wife, what kind of
relationship do we have? So, that's what
I said to her. And she responded like,
"Awesome." She was like, "Wow, I didn't
expect that. I don't know much about
prenups, but I'd be willing to learn
more." I said, "Fantastic." So, we start
talking more about it. We both get
lawyers, as you're both required to. And
it was going pretty well
until it didn't, and we started really
disagreeing about money. and we were
we're just like fighting and she finally
said we should go see somebody because
this conversation is not going the right
direction and and I totally agreed with
her. So we literally went on Yelp and we
searched like therapist near us and we
found one right there. We went and we
sit down and this therapist was great.
She asked us what does money mean to
you? And she asked me first, "It's so
obvious. Money means growth." Like, I
could literally see the compound
interest charts in front of my eyes. I
know about the rule of 72 and expense
ratios. Growth, of course.
She asked the same question to my wife.
My wife says, "Safety."
Like, what? That's like somebody saying
metal. Money means metal to me. I go,
"Huh?" And it was that that we realized
we saw money completely differently.
Completely. It explained to me why my
wife wanted more money in just sitting
in a checking account when I go, "But
that checking account is losing
potential interest. Why would we lower
our yield?" Blah blah blah. We were
looking at it through two totally
different lenses.
So that single question was very helpful
in us reframing our conversations. It
didn't change everything overnight. We
still had a lot of conversations we had
to have. And even once we got married,
we still have conversations now. They're
different. They're about spending and
investing and prioritizing.
But it was a new way for us to look at
the way we related to money. Where did
her lens come from? Childhood like most
of ours. Same for me. In fact, every
time I talk to couples who are now in
the seat that I was in, I ask them,
"What do you remember about growing up
with money?" And they always tell me
similar things. Uh, my parents never
talked about money. That's very common.
Or, um, they said certain phrases like,
"We can't afford it. Money doesn't grow
on trees. We don't talk about money in
this family, etc., etc., etc." Imagine
you hear we can't afford it a hundred
times, a thousand, 10,000 times growing
up and you turn 25, 35, you start to
make decent money, but every time you go
to buy something,
you feel guilty and you feel anxious and
you feel like I should be saving this
money and you can't figure out why
because on paper you make more money. If
you came to me on my podcast, we would
trace it back and you might realize it
is something as simple and vivid as
sitting around the dinner table and
hearing mom or dad saying, "We can't
afford it." Our childhood sticks with us
and we can change, but it's so important
for us to acknowledge that it sticks
with us. If I approach my partner and I
say, "I want to get a prenup." And they
say, "What? You don't trust me?" Yeah.
And they say, "No."
Uh, what do you do? Is that the
question? Well, I I would say first of
all, I wouldn't start off like that. I
think there's there that is one of the
most important conversations you're ever
going to have in your life and the
subsequent conversations. So, take it
seriously. You show up and you explain
it. I explain it perfectly and they turn
around and say that and they say no.
They say you don't trust me. Uh, no.
Okay, that's a contingency you might
have to plan for. So, you might say,
"Okay, can you tell me why? Tell me
what's going through your head. I want
to understand your perspective.
This is a conversation. It's not a
dictate. Trust. You don't trust me.
Yeah.
Would you marry that person? I would
have a lot more conversations. I can't
say yes or no because you can't judge
someone based on their reaction in a
situation they've never been in. How am
I going to react if I got in a car
accident and I start crying? Can you
judge me my entire life based on that?
No, but let's say that we extend it and
and you and I are in a relationship and
I ask you I it's important for me by
virtue of this and that and you go I
don't you don't trust me. If you are
unwilling
to even discuss it, if you're unwilling
to talk to friends, to talk to lawyers,
to talk to people you can find on your
own or I can introduce you to, then I
think we have a bigger disagreement
about values. And you know, the way that
most of us think about a prenup is it's
usually some rich uh telling
someone who has way less money like sign
this paper or it's over. And again,
that's Hollywood. prenup which I learned
is all about if the marriage ends
what you had before or any agreed upon
assets stay with that person. So if you
have a business and your partner and you
get married there's no prenup and for
whatever reason god forbid you separate
suddenly that business might be at risk.
the portfolio that you accumulated
before you ever met your partner might
go to them. And that when you explain it
that way, most people go, "Oh, that
doesn't really seem fair." But the money
that you accumulate together as married
partners, yeah, there definitely should
be an agreed upon that money needs to be
split, etc. And no person, especially
the partner who earns less, should be
left out in the cold ever. Do do you
notice any differences when you speak to
these couples or on your podcast? um in
gender differences as it relates to
people's relationship with money because
I read a lot of stuff about men being
more prone to gambling addiction and
gambling generally. Yeah. Yeah. I think
there are a lot of differences. I think
gender is one of the axes that people
differentiate on. Um I see typically
more aggressive investing from men. I
typically if I see a gender difference
in investing differences it would be
much more conservative with women. I
might see um words like safety and
security used more commonly by women. Um
but I think there are also other axes.
Uh socioeconomic class is a huge one
that we talk about and that's something
that's very uh under the covers
particularly in America, but we talk
about it point blank. If somebody tells
me I've been poor before and I can be
poor again, doesn't bother me. I can
tell you how they were raised. I can
tell you probably to some geographic
area. In fact, um if they tell me um my
parents said be seen and not heard, that
tells me a lot about someone in their
financial behavior. So there are
different axes that you see different
behaviors on. This is the best product
that Hule have released in recent times.
Many of you will think of alternatives
to this, but I I've tried those
alternatives and none of them are as
tasty as Hule's daily greens. It was out
of stock because of the demand. It's now
back in stock for everybody in the USA.
Right now, it's not available in the UK,
but when you get a chance, just try it.
That's all I'm going to say.
Just try it. And I think once you try
it, you'll understand why this is such
an essential part of my life right now
and will probably become an essential
part of yours. I'm someone that
understands probably from doing this
podcast the importance of having greens
in my diet. But do I achieve that every
week in the chaos of my life? Do I
achieve that? Sometimes the answer is
no. With Hules's Daily Greens, the
probability of mech achieving that is
now almost 100%. Because of its
convenience and because of the ease of
preparing this. One scoop,
10 second shake, and you're ready to go.
Over the last few years, I've realized
that my first foundation is my health.
Something you've heard me talk about a
lot. Nothing matters more than that
first foundation. So, that is why I'm so
excited to be involved with a company
like Whoop, who are leading the charge
when it comes to bettering your health.
All my friends have received free Whoops
from me because once you've tried Whoop,
I think it's like lights turning on to
your health. That's the only way I can
describe it. My sleep, my performance,
my recovery, my stress. It's like
someone turned the lights on. I'm sure
you guys know, but for those that don't
know what Whoop is, it's a wearable
health and fitness coach that provides
you with the feedback and actionable
insights into your sleep, recovery,
training, stress, and overall health.
And I have become entirely, utterly
obsessed with it. If you know me well
enough, you know how obsessed I am with
the smallest details. I think those
small things compounded together produce
the biggest gains in our life. And that
is exactly what Whoop does in my health
and fitness every single day. Being able
to see my 1% gains on Whoop has had a
profound impact on my health journey. I
highly recommend you try it. All you
have to do is search join.woop.com/ce
to get a free month's Whoop membership
on me. And if you do, send me a DM and
let me know how you get on. I'd love I'd
love I'd love to know. When you look at
really successful rich people that are
living their rich life that might be
billionaires, millionaires or just
living their rich life, what are the
unobvious things, the the character
traits, the the philosophies towards
life that you see? Whether it's, I don't
know, confidence, whatever that means,
whether it's patience, what are those
like character traits? They're really
good at multiple things. Like really
good. When I was at Stanford my first
year, there was a Nobel laureate
professor and the professor next to him
was making a joke, but it wasn't really
a joke. And he said, you know, you'll
hear stories about a person being an
amazing chemistry professor, but they're
just a disaster at home, etc. But not
him. He's a Nobel laureate. I think it
was in chemistry. He's at the top of his
field in chemistry. And by the way, he's
published papers in music and he's an
accomplished father.
That was the first time that I had been
exposed to the idea that you can be
absolutely amazing in multiple domains
because it's a comforting story we tell
us that, oh, this person's really good
at this, but they're probably a disaster
in everything else. What I find is that
the people who are really good at
something, they're actually good at a
lot of things. They take those skills
and they transfer them. They show up on
time. They prepare even though they
didn't need to. Look at all the
preparation you've done. That's cool.
You didn't need to, but you did it. And
they're probably good socially skilled.
There's a lot of things they're really
good at. So, for me, that is
inspirational because it means that I
have a lot I can work on. Flip that
coin. Then on the other side, people
that you would bet on. Give me three
character traits of people that you
would bet on never living their rich
life in terms of character traits. Uh
number one, they they're surrounded by
people who uh keep them down versus
build them up. So that would be phrases
like um why do you need to do that? Um
that's weird. Don't get too big for your
britches. Okay. Number two, um
impulsive. M they make decisions based
on what's in front of them versus
stepping back and looking at the entire
chessboard and having a long-term
perspective. And if I were to ask them,
tell me two things in your life that you
do with a long-term perspective, they
would probably struggle to answer it.
Whereas a long-term thinker would be
like, "Oh my god, I could talk about
this for four hours. Investing,
parenting, travel, uh what I wear on my
feet, and on and on and on. Health,
perfect." Um,
and three,
no personal vision of a rich life. So if
I ask them, "What is your rich life?"
They go, "I want to do what I want when
I want." I go, "Yeah, yeah, what?" Uh, I
want, you know, I want the house and I
want the car. And I go, "Okay, what type
of car?" Like a Ferrari. Oh, okay. Like,
how come a Ferrari? Oh, it's just cool.
Like a red Ferrari. Like no personal
connection to it. If they were to say,
"I want a Ferrari because uh you know,
my uncle once had a Ferrari and I saw
the race in Italy and blah blah blah." I
go, "Wow." But if it's just things,
objects, driving without a satnav. Yeah.
Yeah. Super interesting. I wish I'd had
this conversation when I was 18. I' I'd
certainly be in a much different
position now. I think about if I if I'd
been even more savvy with my money and
I'd had it compounding sooner in my
life, my life would be
would be a lot different. I actually I
ponder and that's why there was such a
pause there whether it would be happier
cuz I I don't even I don't even know if
Well, your story brought you here what
you did. And look, I wish id started
squatting when I was 14 years old. I
didn't know what a squat was. Yeah. And
so we all deal we play the cards we're
dealt with and then we make the best
with what we've got. And I never want
anyone to feel like it's too late.
There's always something you can do.
Honestly, your life has turned out
obviously very fantastic. But I love
that you grapple with these questions
just like anybody. We all wonder, is it
too late? What if I'd started 5 years
ago? And of course, we can't do anything
about that. We have a closing tradition
on this podcast where the last guest
leaves a question for the next guest.
And the question that's been left for
you without knowing who they're leaving
it for is,
oh, okay. What is other people's biggest
misconception of you?
Uh, I think the biggest misconception is
that I have a very specific way of
telling you what your rich life is.
But that's not true. Uh, that comes
across because people will often
interpret what I say about buying a
house that I'm telling you don't buy a
house. Not true. I'm gonna buy a house
one day myself. What I what I crave is
encouraging someone to build their rich
life with intentionality.
Don't do it like me. My rich life is
mine. Your rich life is never going to
look like mine. Nor should it. The
misconception is that I'm telling you
follow this exact formula and you will
be rich. No. Follow this formula and you
will have a lot of money. But building a
rich life takes your unique creativity
and only you can do that.
Do you see that as a piece of work that
we all need to do? Like the kind of the
exercise that you ran me through there.
Do you think that everybody needs to um
do that initial piece of work to really
sketch out what otherwise what are we
working for? You're saving money
blindly. That's what the whole journal
is about. You've got to know down to the
intimate detail. What is my perfect
Saturday? What do I not want to do? I I
guarantee you when I ask people what
their perfect week looks like, 0% say I
want to spend three hours doing laundry.
I go, great. Can we use money to solve
that problem? Easy. Luggage in the
airport. Can we use money to solve that
problem? Done. We never have to think
about it again. So, we've got to design
our rich life. It doesn't just happen to
us. Nobody trips and falls and lives a
rich life. It is intentional and it is
ongoing work and in my opinion is one of
the most important pieces of work that
we can ever do. And that's you're right
exactly what this journal does. I will
teach you to be rich journal.
And throughout this journal, you kind of
hold people's hand through those
exercises. But solo or you do it with a
partner and you get to dream about
money. Most of us feel so nervous and
rigid and scarce about money, we feel
ashamed. This has almost no numbers.
It's all about what does your rich life
look like? And if anything, you finish
this and you dreaming bigger, not
smaller. When I look at this journal as
I go through it, there's there's a real
emphasis here on just heightening
people's turning the lights on in terms
of what money is, but really heightening
their their self-awareness about their
relationship with money as well. Um,
which seems to be the foundation of
getting good at money. And your other
book, I will teach you to be rich, which
is the second edition of this book. The
first one came out, I believe, in 2009,
just after the financial crash, which is
perfect timing. Um, this one
came out in 2019. So, this is an updated
version of the book. I mean, millions
and millions of people have bought this
book. the nuts and bolts of money. If
you don't know how to get started
investing, if you have debt and you're
not sure what to do, if you even have
questions about uh should I buy whole
life insurance, the answer is no. Uh
should I um buy or lease a car? It's all
in there. No guilt, no excuses, no BS.
Just a six-week program that works.
You're referred to as the new finance
guru. And I think, you know, we do need
new finance gurus because there's not
enough financial literacy from the very
start of our lives as you saw from my
story where I just just my relationship
with money was catastrophic and I could
be in a much I'm very aware that I could
be in a much different position because
of those early mistakes I made and
mishaps and my early relationship with
money. So people do need to start
getting educated with their money
because as I said at the start of this
conversation, it is about living your
rich life and that is a subjective
thing. For me, it was having the freedom
of choice broadly across every facet of
my life about where I spend my time and
and who I spend it with. Um, but it is
the foundation of that freedom of choice
and that's what your book and your work
does so brilliantly and articulately. It
gives us the the path to freedom of
choice and we get to choose what our
rich life looks like. So, thank you so
much for your time. Thank you for being
an inspiration and being a loud voice in
the conversation around money. I know so
many of the people listening to this
podcast are completely in the dark about
money. And so having these kind of
conversations and having the practical
roadmap to how we can improve our
relationship so we can unlock the future
we want is um incredibly important now.
And I'm sure it will remain incredibly
important in the future because there's
going to be a lot of influences like
Instagram and Tik Tok that are trying to
tell us a story about money and
aspirations and what we should be aiming
at that are unhelpful and
counterproductive to our happiness. So
thank you Ram. Thanks for having me.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]